Add Isaac Tutorial (#590)
ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials: doc/how_to_guides/isaac_panda/isaac_panda_tutorial.rst

How To Command Simulated Isaac Robot
====================================

This tutorial requires a machine with ``Isaac 2022.2.0`` installed.
For Isaac requirements and installation please see the `Omniverse documentation <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/app_isaacsim/app_isaacsim/overview.html>`_.

This tutorial has the following assumptions on system configuration:

> 1. Isacc 2022.2.0 is installed on a Ubuntu 20.04 host in the "$HOME/.local/share/ov/pkg/isaac_sim-2022.2.0" directory. (this is the default location)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. NVIDIA Isaac Sim 2022.2.0 is installed on a Ubuntu 20.04 host in the ``"$HOME/.local/share/ov/pkg/isaac_sim-2022.2.0"`` directory. (this is the default location)
```

> 2. Docker is installed.

Reviewer: If you don't get rid of the GPU stuff in the compose file for some reason, this also has to include the NVIDIA Container Toolkit https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html

framework to manage and communicate with your robot, real or simulated. It comes highly recommended because it offers a developers a common API that
allows your software to switch between many different robot types, and the sensors they have built in, by simply changing some launch arguments.
For example if we inspect the Panda Robot's ``ros2_control.xacro`` we can see it uses a flag ``use_fake_hardware`` to switch between being
simulated or connecting to a physical robot.

.. code-block:: XML

    <hardware>
      <xacro:if value="${use_fake_hardware}">
        <plugin>mock_components/GenericSystem</plugin>
      </xacro:if>
      <xacro:unless value="${use_fake_hardware}">
        <plugin>franka_hardware/FrankaHardwareInterface</plugin>
        <param name="robot_ip">${robot_ip}</param>
      </xacro:unless>
    </hardware>

`Hardware Components <https://control.ros.org/master/doc/getting_started/getting_started.html#hardware-components>`_
can be of different types, but the plugin ``<plugin>mock_components/GenericSystem</plugin>`` is very a simple ``System``

> that forwards the incoming ``command_interface`` values to the tracked ``state_interface`` of the joints (I.E. perfect control of the simulated joints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that forwards the incoming ``command_interface`` values to the tracked ``state_interface`` of the joints (i.e., perfect control of the simulated joints).
```

For us to expand our Panda robot to Isaac Sim we first have to introduce `isaac_ros2_control <https://github.com/PickNikRobotics/isaac_ros2_control>`_.
This Hardware Interface is a ``System`` that subscribes and publishes on a configured topics.

> For this tutorial the topic ``/isaac_joint_states`` will be the robots current state and ``/isaac_joint_commands`` will be used to actuate it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial the topic ``/isaac_joint_states`` will contain the robot's current state and ``/isaac_joint_commands`` will be used to actuate it.
```

The `moveit_resources_panda_moveit_config <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_resources/blob/humble/panda_moveit_config/config/panda.ros2_control.xacro#L7>`_
we are using in this tutorial does not support connecting to hardware, so our ``ros2_control.xacro`` is now
updated to load the ``IsaacSystem`` plugin when the flag ``ros2_control_hardware_type`` is set to ``isaac``.

.. code-block:: XML

    <xacro:if value="${ros2_control_hardware_type == 'mock_components'}">
        <plugin>mock_components/GenericSystem</plugin>
    </xacro:if>
    <xacro:if value="${ros2_control_hardware_type == 'isaac'}">
        <plugin>isaac_ros2_control/IsaacSystem</plugin>
        <param name="joint_commands_topic">/isaac_joint_commands</param>
        <param name="joint_states_topic">/isaac_joint_states</param>
    </xacro:if>

> In this tutorial we have included an Isaac python script that loads a Panda robot

Reviewer: In this tutorial we have included a Python script that loads a Panda robot

> and builds an `OnmiGraph <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/prod_extensions/prod_extensions/ext_omnigraph.html>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and builds an `OmniGraph <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/prod_extensions/prod_extensions/ext_omnigraph.html>`_
```

> to publish and subscribe to the ros topics used to control the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to publish and subscribe to the ROS topics used to control the robot.
```

> To learn about configuring your Isaac robot to communicate with ROS2 please see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn about configuring your Isaac Sim robot to communicate with ROS 2 please see the
```

`Joint Control tutorial <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/app_isaacsim/app_isaacsim/tutorial_ros2_manipulation.html>`_
on Omniverse.

Computer Setup
--------------

1. Install `Isaac Sim <https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/app_isaacsim/app_isaacsim/install_workstation.html>`_.

2. For RViz to run inside Docker we have to tell the host to allow it to display applications.

.. note:: this step is only required once every host machine login

.. code-block:: bash

  xhost +local:docker

1. Perform a shallow clone of the MoveIt2 Tutorials repo.

.. code-block:: bash

>   git clone https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit2_tutorials.git -b humble --depth 1

Author: You need to use my branch until this is merged.
`git clone https://github.com/MarqRazz/moveit2_tutorials.git -b pr-isaac_tutorial --depth 1`

> 1. Cd into the path you cloned the tutorials and then switch to the following directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the folder in which you cloned the tutorials and then switch to the following directory.
```

.. code-block:: bash

  cd moveit2_tutorials/doc/how_to_guides/isaac_panda

5. Build the Docker image.

.. code-block:: bash

  docker compose build

6. Start a container based on the new image.

.. code-block:: bash

  docker compose up

You should see the name of the container started and a prompt to build the colcon workspace if needed.

.. code-block:: bash

  [+] Running 1/1
  ⠿ Container isaac_panda-base-1
  Attaching to isaac_panda-base-1
  isaac_panda-base-1  | Sourced ROS 2 Humble
  isaac_panda-base-1  | Please build the isaac_moveit_tutorial workspace with

>   isaac_panda-base-1  | colcon build

Reviewer: If the Dockerfile builds the workspace for the user, and we're not mounting anything, is this step even needed?

EDIT: Confirmed this did not happen on my end, so you can probably remove this step.

7. Open up a second terminal and connect a bash instance to the docker container so we can run the RViz MoveIt portion of the tutorial.

.. code-block:: bash

  docker exec -it isaac_panda-base-1 bash

Once Steps 1-7 are complete you are ready to simulate the Panda robot in RViz with a

> fake system or connect to a simulated robot in Isaac.

Reviewer: See my high-level comment about not requiring users to come in here, but rather create services to run the demo at the `docker-compose.yaml` level

To start the simulated robot in Isaac:

> 8. On the host computer cd into the tutorials launch directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. On the host computer, go to the tutorials launch directory.
```

.. code-block:: bash

>   cd moveit2_tutorials/doc/how_to_guides/isaac_panda/launch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  cd src/moveit2_tutorials/doc/how_to_guides/isaac_panda/launch
```

9. Then run the following command to load the Panda Robot pre-configured to work with this tutorial.

.. note:: This step assumes Isaac is installed on the host in the "$HOME/.local/share/ov/pkg/isaac_sim-2022.2.0" directory.

.. code-block:: bash

>   ./python.sh isaac_moveit.py

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding a note this step that this takes a while the first time:

> Waiting for compilation of ray tracing shaders by GPU driver: 90 seconds so far

Reviewer 2: Also, Ubuntu keeps showing me a dialog asking to close this while I'm waiting:

![Screenshot from 2023-02-14 13-50-53](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2490389/218861131-038734e9-4431-4bf5-8ec2-bb1f161670f5.png)

Reviewer 2: maybe it makes sense to tell users to do something else more basic with isaac sim first to skip this step of telling ubuntu "it's ok" every 30sec or so?

Reviewer: I think just documenting that it will take a while and to be patient even in the face of Force Quit dialogs is fine.

Author: I added a comment for the user to be patient :)

Running the MoveIt Interactive Marker Demo
------------------------------------------

After the Isaac Simulator has started and the Panda Robot appears in the Viewport move over to the terminal
we have loaded inside the docker container and verify that we can receive ROS messages from Isaac.

.. code-block:: bash

  ros2 topic list

The above command should return the following topics. If you do not see the topics from Isaac you can not
continue and you will need to diagnose your DDS configuration.

.. code-block:: bash

  /clock
  /isaac_joint_commands
  /isaac_joint_states
  /parameter_events
  /rosout

Lastly start MoveIt with the ``isaac_ros2_control`` hardware interface

.. code-block:: bash

>   ros2 launch moveit2_tutorials isaac_demo.launch.py

Author: I updated the docs and `docker-compose`. Let me know what you think.
